Git commands :-

If we are not sure about any git command we can use first two words git command -h (h stands for help)
 ex: git commit -h which shows all the git commit abbrevations or commands
     git 


1. git --version - to check git version(2.x )


2. git add - to add data from the working directory to the staging area.


3. git clone (url of the repository) - Creates a copy of an existing Git repository. 


4. git commit -m "message" - Takes the staged snapshot and commits it to the project history. Combined with git add, this defines the basic workflow for all Git users.


5. git config - A convenient way to set configuration options for your Git installation. 


6. git push - To move the data from working server to remote server/repository.


7. git restore - to dicard changes in working directory.


8. git remote - to check the remote origin.


9. git log - To see what changes are made/to check the logs.


10. git diff - To check / compare the changes in a previous file modification and current file(Need to do this before commit)


11. git commit -a -m "message" - to add and commit at a time.


12. git rm filename - To delete


13. .gitignore - To ignore some files.


14. git tag -h - to shows the entire commands in git tag


15. git tag -l - How to list files in Git


16. git tag -d filename - To delete tag name


17. git pull - To pull the updated data from central repository to working area.


18. git branch - to list out the branches


19. git branch (branch name) - to create a new branch


20. git checkout (branch name) - to move from one branch to another branch


21. git merge (branch name) - to merge the commits made in child branches to the main branch


22. git rebase - changing the point of contact to main branch


23. git branch (branch name) (privious branch id) - we can create a new branch in the previous branch by using previous branch id


24. git conflict - will conflict with others edits for same files, so before doing push need to pull.


25. git reset - will cleans the staging area and moves files from staging area to work area

    a) git reset --mixed - default option
     
    b) git reset --hard - whatever changes made are cleaned up, all will be gone
    
    c) git reset --soft - will remove the last commit from the current branch, but the file changes will stay in your working tree.

26. git stash - to save modified files in some other place(we dont know about the place where it will save, will be taken care by git only.)
    command - git stash stashname
        ex: git stash myfile
        
27. git stash pop stashid - to retrive the saved files by stash
    ex: git stash pop stashid of my file

28. git stash list - to show the list of stashes


29. git squash - a way to rewrite your commit history, you are taking the changes from one commit and adding them to the Parent Commit.

30. git revert - undoing changes to a repository's commit history

31. git cherrypick - Cherry picking is the act of picking a commit from a branch and applying it to another. git cherry-pick can be useful for undoing changes. 
                     For example, say a commit is accidently made to the wrong branch. You can switch to the correct branch and cherry-pick the commit to where 
                     it should belong.
32. git tree - A Git tree object creates the hierarchy between files in a Git repository.

33. git log branchname -  it lists all the commits from the branch

34. git log branchname --not master -  to exclude the commits reachable by master and gives me what I want

35. git log --oneline - to view the commits in oneline

36. git add. - will only add modified and untracked files in the current directory and any sub-directories

37. git remote add origin "url" - to add created/committed changes from local repo to Git hub url

38. git remote -v - To view the remote repo list

39. git fetch - used to download contents from a remote repository

40. git rebase -h - to known how many are used in rebase using h, h stands for help

41. echo sometext >> somefile.txt - it will replace the total content in file with sometext(which is written in command line), means entire data in a file will erase.

42. echo  sometext/ >> somefile.txt - if "/" is present then this text(sometext) will add after the existing text



        
        
